Osteoporosis is a common problem that
can lead to broken bones as women age.
To reduce this risk,
millions of women take calcium supplements.
After being broken down in the stomach,
the calcium is absorbed in the small intestine
and transported through the bloodstream
to bones and other tissues.
99% of the calcium in your body
is stored in your bones and teeth,
and calcium supports their structure and function.
To prevent loss of bone mass,
it’s important to have enough calcium
in the blood transported to bones.
There is concern that this goal may be hindered
by long-term or chronic use of the drugs
called proton pump inhibitors—or PPIs.
PPIs shut down the pumps
in stomach cells that make stomach acid.
Women who use them long-term
have an increased risk of fractures.
It is thought that reduced stomach acid
may slow the breakdown of calcium in the stomach
and reduce the amount absorbed from the small intestine.
This would reduce the amount of calcium
in the bloodstream and the amount
being absorbed by bones,
and could contribute to bone thinning
or osteoporosis.